# Women & Percieved Authority: The Internet and Conservatism
Women who keep men on leashes do not exist, except on the internet. Between blatant misandry, advocacy for women deemed ‘misandry’, and intense attempts to even the rift between men and women, there is a transference of power and a new way to shame women in every trend. This is not entirely an intense deep dive into the mechanics of the gender gap, but an observation and noted history of the age of the internet as of December 2025, laced with the opinions of the author. A myriad of topics will be of note to the reader, including internet trends, power, and politics. I, the author, am not going to be light-handed in my views, because, well, this is my paper, one that I doubt will ever be published except in listless daydreams. Critiques are welcome, and I do adore a good debate. 

To those who are not on Instagram, TikTok, or even YouTube, the topic of this paper is, to say it bluntly, stupid. No, I am not discussing a fetish, kink, or any other sort of semi-sexual activity, one such as putting a man on a leash, even for views. That’s another discussion entirely. As of around 2024, there has been a large shift in social media, especially regarding the short-form content that most people consume regularly. In 2025, there are around two billion users on Instagram Reels and ~140 billion Reels viewed each day, being the most engaging content type since 2024 (Gasner). This is only to give a reader a scope of how many people are not only viewing but engaging, partaking in, and internalizing the opinions and trends that are the focus of this essay. This is the basis of the larger shift we will discuss here.

Perhaps it is best to first get into the rise in feminism since 2023. Since January 1st  of 2023, 11.3% of countries have women Heads of State, compared to a decade ago, where the statistic sat at 5.3%. In America, we saw a large shift towards women, with Taylor Swift, Barbie, and Beyoncé leading in economic sales (UN Women), and Barbie being the most searched movie of 2023 (Wikipedia Contributors). A view of social media at the time consisted of the aforementioned women, with the Barbie movie taking the for-you-page with “Barbie was a love letter to all women”, Ben Shapiro’s opinion of the feminist film, and the real-world meanings and implications behind Barbie and Ken’s feud. While I would like to do a dive into this film in particular, this is not what we must linger on at the moment.   
In 2024-25, we can observe the furthering of this shift for women, with a highlight on Instagram and Instagram Reels. On July 18th , 2025, a video posted by @rs.nyae got 1 million likes and 6.8 million views, featuring the song  Keep Ya Head Up  by Tupac and displaying a myriad of women with the lyrics "And since we all came from a woman, got our name from our women and our game from our women, I wonder why we take from our women, why we rape our women, do we hate our women?” The comments were flooded with people saying that “Boys listen to 2Pac but do they listen to 2Pac?” and “’He’s such a pick me’ and it’s just a man with basic respect for women.” In 2024, #ihatemybf began to trend, featuring videos stating “Just got my first boyfriend. Probably going to keep him in here” (while the background of the video shows a cage), “When my boyfriend is crying because...but I catch a glimpse of my reflection in his tears.” In addition, the hashtag #rightwhereiwannabe began to trend earlier in 2025, where men would make posts saying this such as: “Told her I like physical touch and she lowkey starts beating the fuck out of me #rightwhereiwannabe,” where some videos like this can reach up to 78.9 thousand likes and 152 reposts. 

For the sake of not losing momentum as we discuss social media from 2024-25, I would like to turn the reader’s attention to various other trends. By June 13th, 2025, there was a trend of women sharing the “hottest thing men can do”, featuring lists such as: 
 > “1. Cry   2. Gets on knees when apologizing   3. Show emotion   4. “Oh yeah?”   5. Wear all black fit   6. Shut up  7. Does what you tell him to."

In addition, there was a rise in discussing “the bush”, referring to women’s pubic hair and support for not shaving it, an opinion that has been a wide online shift. Refocusing on men, we see a trend in “deriods,” where men take women’s periods and make jokes that they, too, have periods (called, of course, ‘deriods’). Some of these videos are jokes including “When my girl wants me to take care of her on her period but when I was on my deriod last week she didn’t even notice” (sitting at 1.6 million likes), “got my deriod today all because I forgot to take my girth control” and “When I get my deriod so literally everything overstimulates me and I get upset over the smallest things.”   

This all may seem like a slop of disjointed internet trends that are sometimes jokes and clearly meant to be taken as satire, pushed together to make it seem as though we have some sort of trend going on. However, nothing is an isolated event, and when the internet is used to push agendas, ideas, and politics, we can’t take everything as “just a joke,” especially concerning social issues such as the continued misogyny even going into 2026.

To round out our look into internet trends as we set up for our real discussion, let us look at the purely political sphere of the internet.

Is Gen-Z becoming more conservative? Well, no. Being “conservative” often goes hand-in-hand with being a Republican. These can be different, however, because Republican is a political party, and conservative often refers to moral or political views. Republican and conservative views often align, leading to them becoming interchangeable. PRRI, a nonprofit organization focused on studying politics, religion, and culture, released their study on Gen-Z’s general political bias in 2024. According to them, 31% of Gen-Z identifies as Democrats, 30% as Independent, and 23% as Republican. They note, however, that 16% responded with “other” or “don’t know” (PRRI). They also make the distinction that, generally, men are more likely than women to be Republican (34% of men vs 28% of women).
On the Internet, we see both sides of the political coin. On October 15th, 2025, a video by @theyoungrightusa posted a video that reached 241 million likes and 3.1 million views saying that “gen z is based,” backed with a video of patriotic youth.  The comments are filled with older people (generally, those who lean more Republican are age 50 and up (Pew Research Center)) saying “Jesus is king baby” and “Proud of Gen Z! Keep fighting!!” and even “We miss you Charlie [Kirk], you spoke for our generation hella.” There was even a video with the caption “WE ARE CHARLIE KIRK,” and the content of the video is young people stating that “they are Charlie Kirk” (claiming support for his ideas and to continue fighting for what he spoke for) which reached10.5 million views.

Indeed, the assassination of Charlie Kirk raised both support and frustration from all political parties. Some reports indicate that people are taking more spiritual and political action since his death (“How Americans Are Responding to Charlie Kirk’s Death”) and some are claiming that “extremist rhetoric” is more widely spread and supported since his death (Hagstrom). Only time will tell on the long-term effect of everything that has occurred.

Since the heightened political opinions after Trump’s election and Kirk’s assassination, a wave of trad-wives have populated the Internet. However, this is not a new trend. The “trad wife” influencer has been widely discussed since early 2024, with people such as Nara Smith taking the lead in populating the quiet aesthetic of being a traditional wife.The commentary on traditional wives since their rise on social media is, frankly, worn out, however I will do a quick discussion on the topic. “Tradwives” or traditional wives are not simply stay-at-home mothers or homemakers, but a specific brand of influencer selling perfection and well-defined gender roles. Nara Smith’s videos broadcast a perfectly pristine kitchen where she cooks and bakes anything the viewer can imagine, and ‘blooper’ clips of her husband, Lucky, slapping her butt, choking her, or fondling her just so happen to make it into the final cut. Other tradwives show their followers “the feminine urge to cook for your husband” or “he doesn’t know our kids’ information at the doctor and I don’t know how much the house costs – that’s balance.” All of this is pre-packaged traditional gender roles with the additional slap of sold perfection and capitalistic desire; a big, clean house, with a wife with perfect makeup and clothes who takes care of the children who are mercifully silent, who cooks and cleans, and you, the husband, come home from your 9-5 to find this perfect scene. 

This will be my first interjection: this is not reality. This is not a “traditional wife.” This is pre-planned, articulate, formulated living, created to sell products, a lifestyle, and a mindset. For the reader who has not been online since their rise, you will find it easy to search for countless documentaries, video essays, and articles about this trend and its issues. For the reader well-versed in Internet drama, this is a recap of your for-you page for the past two years. 
In relation to the traditional wife discussion, we can begin our talk on modesty and fashion, first with the hemline index. Begun in the 20th century, it claims a correlation between skirt lengths and the economy; short skirts in good times, long skirts during a downfall. It suggests that conservative values (i.e., modesty) become popular as the economy falls. While it is something that is fascinating in theory, and the creator George Taylor’s 1929 Ph.D. thesis is a worthy read, it’s not an absolute way to judge the economy (Fowler). Of course it’s not. But, you know, hemlines, hair dye, men’s underwear, lipstick, and champagne sales took a hit during the Great Depression and 2020 (Kelly), so while it’s not a direct indicator, and correlation is not causation, there is a correlation, and there is a reason behind it.

On social media, we see the hit: “long skirt girlies” trend in the summer, “not going out for Halloween because my future husband deserves better” around the autumnal holiday, and “dark academic aesthetic” all around in the autumn, which boasts mainly older, preppy clothes that are reminiscent of early 20th century European aristocracy. It rings the bell of modesty, conservatism, and traditional values.


Women do not do everything for men. Women do not have to perform for men. Women do not have to ‘work’ for men. Women do not have to serve men.

These are simple things to say, yes? They’re mostly agreed-upon in our society, too. We’re in 2025; of course women don’t have to serve men! That’s a thing of the past.

But traditional wives pander to the algorithm to get their videos on the for-you pages of people, including young people, who end up thinking that women serve men and men deserve this treatment. Not being a ‘slut’ on Halloween is pushed until there’s shame around having fun and dressing up at all. A fun and peaceful discussion between women about being a ‘cutie’ or a ‘baddie’ is twisted by men into who they want to marry or fuck more. Is everything for men? Do I exist to perform for an ungrateful audience? Am I a slut for wearing a short skirt? Is it so men will want me more? And if it is not, if it is because I look hot, then I’m still conforming to a definition of hotness that men created. And if I am ugly and I’m okay with it, I’m still calling myself and women that look like me ugly by a standard that men created. And if I create a community where I can freely discussion menstruation without shame, will men take it and make it about them? Will they satirize what we’ve discussed? Will our struggles become a joke that we can no longer take seriously? It is easy to say “men ruin everything” and “I hate men,” and it’s easier to say “women power” and “I’m a feminist.” But how can I be when the very systems I’m against make up society as a whole? When what I do only is twisted into another way that I am hurting myself or the women around me? When my grandmother cannot leave her husband because he’s taken her money, freedom, her life, what can I do? When I’m a slut or a prude, fighting the system or believing I’m exempt from it, I am losing simply because I am a woman. Will this discussion ever end? I have been preaching the same thing since 2020, 2021, 2023, since the Barbie movie, Bonnie Blue and Mia Khalifa. Porn traffics women, conservatism constrains women, feminism divides women between Black feminism and Leftist feminism and Radical feminism and Marxist feminism. Men and boys pander to women in ‘performative’ hobbies and aesthetics, women shame other women, and only in certain spheres of the Internet are women encouraged to do what they please without intrusion from men, where women keep men in cages and tell them to shut up when they are crass and mean to women. And even in these spheres, they are interrupted, and I am called a misandrist. 

**Mis * an * drist (noun)**: a person who *dislikes*, *despises*, or is *strongly prejudiced* against men.

I am not a misandrist. I love my dad, and my boyfriend, and the men in my life who are my friends, and my male coworkers. They’re good people. I am socially bisexual and personally I don’t make distinctions between what gender I’m attracted to (which is to say, I am attracted to men, women, and others). It is in my belief that most of the time, the women who “keep men in cages” or on leashes or in chains do not exist beyond the Internet, because this is our only way to cope with the real-life affection for, tolerance of, and oppression from men. Perhaps these trends will lead into women speaking up against men in real life more often, with women not being called trashy for not wearing a bra or a slut for wearing a short skirt. It is hard to say. And the women who make these jokes online may or may not be misandrists, but that isn’t for me to judge when I partake in the movement against letting men do whatever they want without consequences. 

Jokes can only be jokes to a certain point, and they all have real-life implications. The Internet is controlled and monitored, and nothing is meaningless. Being racist as a ‘joke’ is not a joke, being homophobic as a ‘joke’ isn’t a joke, and being misogynistic as a ‘joke’ is not a joke. You think you know this, but you don’t. Satire only goes so far, and only means so much, until it is reality, and it is accepted, and the lines between ‘real’ and ‘fake’ are blurred until they do not exist except for a smudge on the screen. 


## Bibliography
Fowler, Emily. “What Is the Hemline Index, and Is It an Accurate Recession Indicator?” Nasdaq.com, 2025, www.nasdaq.com/articles/what-hemline-index-and-it-accurate-recession-indicator.

Gasner, William. “Instagram Posts vs. Reels: Which Is Better for Influencers?” Stack Influence, Oct. 2025, stackinfluence.com/instagram-posts-vs-reels-which-is-better/.

Hagstrom, Anders. “Majority of Democrats Say “Extremist Political Rhetoric” Contributed to Charlie Kirk Assassination: Poll.” Fox News, 17 Nov. 2025, www.foxnews.com/politics/majority-democrats-say-extremist-political-rhetoric-contributed-charlie-kirk-assassination-poll.

“How Americans Are Responding to Charlie Kirk’s Death.” Barna Group, 4 Dec. 2025, www.barna.com/research/impact-charlie-kirk/.
Kelly, Jack. “Skirt Lengths, Lipstick, Men’s Underwear and Champagne Sales Are All Recession Indicators.” Forbes, 12 Aug. 2023, www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2023/08/12/skirt-lengths-lipstick-mens-underwear-and-champagne-sales-are-all-recession-indicators/.

Pew Research Center. “Age, Generational Cohorts and Party Identification.” Pew Research Center - U.S. Politics & Policy, Pew Research Center, 9 Apr. 2024, www.pewresearch.org/politics/2024/04/09/age-generational-cohorts-and-party-identification/.
PRRI. GENERATION Z FACT SHEET a POLITICAL and CULTURAL GLIMPSE into AMERICA’S FUTURE. 2024.

UN Women. “Women in Power in 2023: New Data Shows Progress but Wide Regional Gaps.” UN Women, 7 Mar. 2023, www.unwomen.org/en/news-stories/press-release/2023/03/women-in-power-in-2023-new-data-shows-progress-but-wide-regional-gaps.

Wikipedia Contributors. “List of Year in Search Top Searches.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 5 Dec. 2025, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Year_in_Search_top_searches.